# Online-Shopping-Platform

  
 
Online Shopping Platform
10.12.2018
─
Rajat Singh
B.Tech
Electronics & Communication Engineering (Batch of 2016-2020)
National Institute of Technology, Silchar
SYNOPSIS
The Project entitled "ONLINE SHOPPING PLATFORM” is a web-based application Software developed in JSP Framework using Java, JDBC and MySql for the Back end. HTML, CSS and JavaScript as front end.
 
The main aim of the project is to improve the services of Customers and vendors. It maintains the details of customer payments, product receipts, addition of new customers, products and also updating, deletion for the same.  It also stores the details of invoices generated by customer and payments made by them with all Payments details like credit card.
The primary features of the project entitled "ONLINE SHOPPING    PLATFORM" are high  accuracy, design flexibility and easy availability.  And also it uses database tables Representing entities and relationships between entities.

OVERVIEW
 
The central concept of the application is to allow the customer to shop virtually using the Internet and allow customers to buy the items of their desire from the store in their City.  The information pertaining to the products is stored on an RDBMS at the server side (store).  The Server process the customers and the items are purchased by them and shipped to their address. The application was designed into two modules first is for the customers who wish to buy the articles.  Second is for the storekeepers who maintains and updates the information pertaining to the articles and those of the customers. 
The end user of this product is a departmental store where the application is hosted on the web and the administrator maintains the database.  The application which is deployed at the customer database, the details of the items are brought forward from the database for the customer view based on the selection through the menu and the database of all the products are updated at the end of each transaction.
 
  	Data entry into the application can be done through various screens designed for various levels of users.  Once the authorized personnel feed the relevant data into the system, several reports could be generated as per the security.

Working
There will be four sections available in the home page, Following are the mentioned                    sections:
1.)	 Register
2.)	 User
3.)	 Analyst
4.)	 Admin
 
                         “Register” section is used by the users to register themselves on this “Online Platform” to avail the services of online shopping. They need to enter the following attributes :
●	User Name  
●	Password
●	Confirm Password
●	Date Of Birth
●	Email
●	Gender
●	Mobile No
●	Address               

Admin Section: 
    Admin need to login first before entering into the Admin Section : )  After successful login, the Admin will have the following sections to perform the various operations related to database.
●	View All Users: Here the Admin can see all the registered users on this platform, he can delete any registered users.
●	ADD Product : It consists of  form where some basic information about the product needs to be filled i.e category, product name, description, price and brand 
●	View All Products : It will open with a table consisting of a list of the category of items available on this online  shopping platform.
●	View Purchased Products: It will open with a table consisting of all the purchased products till date along with their purchased frequency.
●	View Recommended Products: It will open with a table consisting of all the recommended products till date along with their recommendation frequency.
●	Log out:To exit from the session and return back to the Home page

User Section : 
Any registered user can login to their account and can avail the services design for their ease.   If not registered they need to register themselves first then they can come back and try again with the correct credentials, After successful login, the user will have the following sections to perform the various operations related to their account.
●	Search Products : It will open a new window with a simple search bar where the user can search the desired category of product, It will display a list of all the items available in the online shop under the searched category. Across every displayed item there will be a View details option.
                                             View details option will show the description of the product i.e price and other details.           
                                             Now you can purchase the product, recommend it to any existing user through username and email or you can add the same to your cart and come back later to buy it.   
                                             When you click the purchase button it will redirect to a new page showing your wallet amount and the selected product price, now on clicking confirm purchase button you can purchase the product if you have sufficient balance.

●	View Recommended Product :  It will show all the products recommended to you by any user. From here you can see the details and can buy it or you can add to cart to buy later.
●	View Cart Products : It will show all the products that you have added in your cart. you can see the details and can buy it.
●	View Purchased Products : It will show all the products that you have bought from this online shopping site along with product details and billing date.
●	Manage Payment Options : It will be redirected to a new window where you can manage your payment options.  It will consists of the following options  
➔	                                             Add a new Bank Account: You can add your bank account and you can directly buy any products using OTP or UPI.
➔	                                             Add Money to Wallet : You can add money from added bank account to wallet to purchase any product directly.
➔	                                             View Wallet Amount : You can see your wallet amount.

●	Log out :To exit from the session and return back to the Home page.


Analyst Section:
Analyst need to login first before entering into the Analyst Section : )  After successful login, the Analyst  will have the following sections to perform the various operations related to database.
•	Purchased Analysis: It is used to show the purchased status of a product category (like mobile, book etc.) in the form of graphs and charts. At first analyst need to select a category (like mobile, laptop, book, t-shirt etc.) and then on clicking analyze button the purchased analyses (ex: X-axis: mobile name and Y-axis: Total purchased frequency) will appear in graphical form.
•	Recommended Analysis: It is used to show the recommended status of a product category (like mobile, book etc.) in the form of graphs and charts. At first analyst need to select a category (like mobile, laptop, book, t-shirt etc.) and then on clicking analyze button the recommended analyses (ex: X-axis: mobile name and Y-axis: Total purchased frequency) will appear in graphical form. It will help the analyst to see which product is being recommended the most, accordingly he can increase/decrease its stock/price.
•	Viewed Analyses: It is used to show the viewed status of a product category (like mobile, book etc.) in the form of graphs and charts. At first analyst need to select a category (like mobile, laptop, book, t-shirt etc.) and then on clicking analyze button the purchased analyses (ex: X-axis: mobile name and Y-axis: Total purchased frequency) will appear in graphical form.


General Instructions about project:
	The name of the Data Base used is e_commerce. 
	There are total 3 major tables.
	Temp_table: Stores the user registration information. It will be used during sign in/sign out of a user.
	Add_product: Used by the admin for adding a new product in the platform.
	User_activity: To keep track of user’s purchased, recommended and cart details. It is normalized further into 3 tables to reduce the Data Base redundancy.
	For transaction purpose information instamojo Data Base is accessed.



    



